There felt a :charge in the air for years. Humming in the backend of consciousness, inexplicable and unrelenting and unexpressed until the TV shows did it. First one program, then a second picking up on a mysterious well of consumer preference, then maybe a movie and a book discussing the factual merits of that movie. In a few years time there were entire networks and audiences devoted to it.  

There was research too. Some isolated indigenous people had it predicted and hundreds of years later a man burned as a heretic had repeated it.  The End. It was, but without specificities. Too far beyond the scope of human design. Yet he had to wonder, of potential disaster which would be the disaster? Or rather which could be The Disaster?  

Every night he had the same dream: the woods around his childhood home once green but now all broken trunked and the ground dug up. He'd see clouds moving fast towards him, then the sun would go dim and things would get all fogged and when it began to snow it covered everything. Then a spinning room would wake him and keep spinning until he had to look at a wall to make it stop.

Quiet anxiety. Like someone following you,  he felt it everywhere, and everywhere he went he felt that everyone else felt it too.  He feels that time is running out but what does that even mean.  Each tick of the clock is like a drip from leaking cup, and maybe its the weight of that thought that makes it so that all anyone can do is just ignore it.      

He is outside on the subway platform now. Its winter and tendrils of steam spiral from some kid's moist cheeseburger.  French inhale and a big bite. Cars honk on the street below and everyone is selling something. Another bite,The kid keeps going.  Is that all anyone can do in these situations, keep going.   

No one knows how, or when, or why.  They just know.  No one speaks about it, and its not on the news, or rather, its on the news but hidden in events that sound like fiction. Assassinations of scientists, global revolution; First the earth is warming like a potato, and now its are poles reversing. Tomorrow there will be psychological threats to mass markets and the end of capital; epidemics that you can catch on the internet. They compound, events don't just go happen, they linger, they are all the time.  Buzzing and oppressing and casting shadows that segment your surroundings into something like notebook paper.
